# S.Fk.McKenzie_FoodWeb_Study
## The South Fork of the McKenzie River (SFMR) is a heavily-modified system, with a high headwater dam about 4 miles from its confluence with the mainstem McKenzie River. The river segment below the dam was once prime chinook, bull and cutthroat trout habitat. After dam construction, it became a single channel system engineered for efficient flow away from the dam, with poor connectivity to the flood plain and an altered thermal regime, making the segment poor habitat for salmonids.

Under the Stream Evolution Model, Stage 0 is the hydro-geological and ecological state of a stream system before human modification, with ecosystem services intact, diverse food webs and habitats, and dynamic natural processes at play. Stage 0 restoration of the lowest reach of the SFMR was accomplished during the summer of 2018. The river was diverted from the main channel, tractors filled it in with aggregates and sediments and leveled berms and other flood plain modifications in order to return to pre-modified flood plain conditions. The river was then slowly returned to the main channel and allowed to push the fill material, along with hundreds of logs placed by helicopter, wherever the natural flood process dictated. This restoration method employs natural processes within the alluvial floodplain to reestablish side-channels and pools, restore groundwater connectivity, create a diversity of habitats and aquatic communities, and evolve over time as environmental conditions change.
